final
================
xinran
11/6/2019

# 1\. The group members (names and UNIs)

Anran Shao(as5685) Jun Yin(jy2965) Xinran Luo(xl2851) Roxana Yixuan
Yan(yy2912) Tianna Ouyang(to2345)

# 2\. The tentative project title

# 3\. The motivation for this project

Squirrels have always served as a needed source of entertainment in
Central Park. Other rodent’s population has been well traced and
documented by human, but not always Squirrels. However, the necessity of
mapping the total population of squirrels in Central Park is observed as
it depicts this community’s size and growth, which is highly related to
the evaluation of this community’s functioning as a source of
entertainment, as well as their potential of harboring and delivering
pathogens to human.

In this project, we use The Squirrel Census data from NYC Open Data
host, which focuses on Eastern gray species specifically. For this
project, we aim at depicting a full picture of the current squirrels
commmunity in Central Park, with regards to their demographics
statistics as well as their living status. We also intend to assess
their performance and activity of Squirrels in Central Park, by
evaluating their interactions with humans.

We believe this project can provide evidence-based information of the
Central Park Squirrel community, as well as contribute to the aspect of
the evaluation and regulation of the Squirrel team. This project also
have the potential in providing further management insights for the
planning and designing aspect of the Central Park.

# 4\. The intended final products

# 5\. The anticipated data sources

The Squirrel Census (<https://www.thesquirrelcensus.com/>) is a
multimedia science, design, and storytelling project focusing on the
Eastern gray (Sciurus carolinensis). They count squirrels and present
their findings to the public. We use the following 2 datasets:

1.  2018 Central Park Squirrel Census - Squirrel Data: This table
    contains squirrel data for each of the 3,023 sightings, including
    location coordinates, age, primary and secondary fur color,
    elevation, activities, communications, and interactions between
    squirrels and with humans.

2.  2018 Central Park Squirrel Census - Hectare Data: This table
    contains environmental data related to each of the 350 “countable”
    hectares of Central Park. Examples include weather, litter, animals
    sighted, and human density.

# 6\. The planned analyses / visualizations / coding challenges

# 7\. The planned timeline

**11.7-11.14**:

1.  finalize research questions
2.  data cleaning
3.  project review meeting

**11.15-11.21**:

1.  data analysis
2.  report

**11.22-11.28**:

1.  webpage
2.  screencast

**11.29-12.5**:

1.  get feedback from Jeff and the TAs
2.  peer evaluation

**12.10**: in-class discussion of projects
